v4 guides: hook swap (#766)
Uniswap/docs: docs/contracts/v4/guides/04-hooks/swap.mdx

---

> title: Swap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Swap Hooks
```

---

Swaps are the most common interaction with the Uniswap protocol. When it comes to swap there are two hook functions available to customize and extend its behavior:

- `beforeSwap`
- `afterSwap`

> As the names suggest `beforeSwap`/`afterSwap` are functions called before or after a swap is executed in a pool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the names suggest `beforeSwap`/`afterSwap` are functions called before or after a swap is executed on a pool.
```

This guide will explain the mechanism of encoded flags for hooks, and go through the parameters and examples for `beforeSwap` and `afterSwap`.

Note: The swap examples are not production ready code, and are implemented in a simplistic manner for the purpose of learning.

## Hook Flags

> As mentioned in [Concept of Hooks](../../concepts/04-hooks.mdx), hook contracts specify the permissions that determine which hook functions they implement by __encoding them in the address of the contract__. Then the `PoolManager` uses these permissions to determine which hook functions to call for a given pool based on its Key. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned in [Concept of Hooks](../../concepts/04-hooks.mdx), hook contracts indicate their implemented functions by __encoding flags in the address of the contract__. The `PoolManager` uses these permissions to determine which hook functions to call for a given pool.
```

> This is where encoded flags come into play. Each hook function e.g. `beforeSwap` - corresponds to a certain "flag". For example, the `beforeSwap` function is correlated to the [`BEFORE_SWAP_FLAG`](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-core/blob/main/src/libraries/Hooks.sol#L37) which has a value of `1 << 7`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each hook function e.g. `beforeSwap` - corresponds to a certain _flag_. For example, the `beforeSwap` function is correlated to the [`BEFORE_SWAP_FLAG`](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-core/blob/main/src/libraries/Hooks.sol#L37) which has a value of `1 << 7`.
```

> These flags represent specific bits in the address of the hook smart contract - and the value of the bit (a zero or a one) represents whether that flag is set to true or false. Let's understand this with an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These flags represent specific bits in the address of the hook smart contract - and the value of the bit (a one or a zero) represents whether that flag is true or false. An example:
```

Addresses on Ethereum are 20 bytes long (160 bits). So for example the address:

```
0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000C0
```

represented in binary is:

```solidity
0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 
0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 
0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 0000 1100 0000
```

In binary it goes from right-to-left - so the trailing 8 bits of this address are `1100 0000` where:

1st Bit to 6th Bit = `0`

7th Bit to 8th Bit = `1`

> The `AFTER_SWAP` flag is represented by the 7th bit - which is set to `1` for the given contract address. That means this contract address - if it is a hook contract address - signals that the `afterSwap` function is implemented in it and the PoolManager will attempt to call that function during a `swap` workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `AFTER_SWAP` flag is represented by the 7th bit - which is set to `1` for the example contract address. In the `PoolManager's` swap execution flow, it will observe the flag and make a call to the hook's `afterSwap` function.
```

> Similarly, the 8th bit which is also a `1`, actually corresponds to the `BEFORE_SWAP` i.e. the `beforeSwap` hook function - which will also attempt to be called by the `PoolManager` during a `swap` workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, the 8th bit which is also a `1`, actually corresponds to the `BEFORE_SWAP` i.e. the `beforeSwap` hook function - which will also be called by the `PoolManager` during a `swap` workflow.
```

> A full list of all flags can be found [here](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-core/blob/main/src/libraries/Hooks.sol). Now let's move on to the actual implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A full list of all flags can be found [here](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-core/blob/main/src/libraries/Hooks.sol).
```

## Set Up the Contract

Declare the solidity version used to compile the contract, since transient storage is used the solidity version will be `>=0.8.24`.

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.24;
```

Import the relevant dependencies from `v4-core` and `v4-periphery`:

```solidity
import {BaseHook} from "v4-periphery/src/base/hooks/BaseHook.sol";

import {Hooks} from "v4-core/src/libraries/Hooks.sol";
import {IPoolManager} from "v4-core/src/interfaces/IPoolManager.sol";
import {PoolKey} from "v4-core/src/types/PoolKey.sol";
import {PoolId, PoolIdLibrary} from "v4-core/src/types/PoolId.sol";
import {BalanceDelta} from "v4-core/src/types/BalanceDelta.sol";
import {BeforeSwapDelta, BeforeSwapDeltaLibrary} from "v4-core/src/types/BeforeSwapDelta.sol";
```

> Create a contract called SwapHook, use `PoolIdLibrary` to attach functions of computing ID of a pool to `PoolKey`. Declare two mappings to act as counters when calling `beforeSwap` and `afterSwap`. Also use `BaseHook` in constructor to import the abstract contract for hook implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a contract called SwapHook, use `PoolIdLibrary` to attach functions of computing ID of a pool to `PoolKey`. Declare two mappings to act as counters when calling `beforeSwap` and `afterSwap`.
```

        beforeRemoveLiquidity: false,
        afterRemoveLiquidity: false,
        beforeSwap: true,
        afterSwap: true,
        beforeDonate: false,
        afterDonate: false,
        beforeSwapReturnDelta: false,
        afterSwapReturnDelta: false,
        afterAddLiquidityReturnDelta: false,
        afterRemoveLiquidityReturnDelta: false
    });
}
```

## beforeSwap

Here the example shows that every time __before__ a swap is executed in a pool, `beforeSwapCount` for that pool will be incremented by one.

```solidity
function beforeSwap(address, PoolKey calldata key, IPoolManager.SwapParams calldata, bytes calldata)
    external
    override
    returns (bytes4, BeforeSwapDelta, uint24)
{
    beforeSwapCount[key.toId()]++;
    return (BaseHook.beforeSwap.selector, BeforeSwapDeltaLibrary.ZERO_DELTA, 0);
}
```

### `beforeSwap` Parameters

When triggering the `beforeSwap` hook function, there are some parameters we can make use of to customize or extend the behavior of `swap`. These parameters are described in `beforeSwap` from [`IHooks.sol`](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-core/blob/main/src/interfaces/IHooks.sol#L111).

A brief overview of the parameters:

> - `sender` The initial `msg.sender` for the swap call

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `sender` The initial `msg.sender` for the `PoolManager.swap` call. Typically a swap router
```

- `key` The key for the pool
- `params` The parameters for the swap i.e. `SwapParams` from [`IPoolManager.sol`](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-core/blob/main/src/interfaces/IPoolManager.sol#L146C12-L146C22)
- `hookData` Arbitrary data handed into the `PoolManager` by the swapper to be be passed on to the hook

## afterSwap

Similiar as above, every time __after__ a swap is executed in a pool, `afterSwapCount` for that pool will be incremented by one.

```solidity
function afterSwap(address, PoolKey calldata key, IPoolManager.SwapParams calldata, BalanceDelta, bytes calldata)
    external
    override
    returns (bytes4, int128)
{
    afterSwapCount[key.toId()]++;
    return (BaseHook.afterSwap.selector, 0);
}
```

### `afterSwap` Parameters

When triggering the `afterSwap` hook function, there are some parameters we can make use of to customize or extend the behavior of `swap`. These parameters are described in `afterSwap` from [`IHooks.sol`](https://github.com/Uniswap/v4-core/blob/main/src/interfaces/IHooks.sol#L126).

A brief overview of the parameters:

> - `sender` The initial msg.sender for the swap call

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `sender` The initial `msg.sender` for the `PoolManager.swap` call. Typically a swap router
```
